docs-ref-services/latest/storage.md, before:

---
title: Azure Storage SDK for JavaScript
description: Reference for Azure Storage SDK for JavaScript
author: EmmaZhu
ms.author: emmazhu
ms.data: 05/25/2023
ms.topic: reference
ms.devlang: javascript
ms.service: storage
ms.date: 06/15/2022
---
# Azure Storage Library for JavaScript

[Azure Storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/) is a Microsoft managed service providing cloud storage that is highly available, secure, durable, scalable, and redundant. The following libraries in JavaScript make it easy to consume Azure Storage service.

## Client Packages (12.X.X)

|Service| NPM package| Examples|Getting Started Guide|
|---|---|---|--|
|**Storage Blob**|[@azure/storage-blob](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/storage-blob)|[storage-blob-typescript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-blob-typescript/)<br> [storage-blob-JavaScript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-blob-JavaScript/)|Read and write objects and files from [Azure Storage Blob](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/storage-nodejs-how-to-use-blob-storage)|
|**Storage Files**|[@azure/storage-file-share](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/storage-file-share)|[storage-file-share-typescript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-file-share-typescript/)<br> [storage-file-share-javascript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-file-share-javascript/)||
|**Storage Queue**|[@azure/storage-queue](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/storage-queue)|[storage-queue-typescript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-queue-typescript/)<br> [storage-queue-JavaScript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-queue-JavaScript/)|Send and receive messages between cloud-connected applications with <br>[Azure Storage Queue](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/queues/storage-quickstart-queues-nodejs)|
|**Storage Table**|[azure-storage](https://www.npmjs.com/package/azure-storage)<br>(Legacy)| - |Read and write large structured data with [Azure Storage Table](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/storage-nodejs-how-to-use-table-storage)|
|**Data Table**|[@azure/data-table](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/data-tables)|[data-table-typescript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/data-tables-typescript/)<br> [data-table-JavaScript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/data-tables-javascript/)|Read and write large structured data with [Azure Storage Table](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/storage-nodejs-how-to-use-table-storage)|
|||||

Install the npm module with `npm install` followed by the `package-name`. For example,
```bash
npm install @azure/storage-blob
```
and look at the examples from the links provided in the table above.

Read more about the client packages here - [Azure Storage Client Libraries For JavaScript](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/master/sdk/storage/).

Find more getting started guides at [Browse code samples](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/samples/)

## Management Package

### Install the npm module 

Install the Azure storage management npm module

```bash
npm install @azure/arm-storage
```

### Example

Examples for using this module in Node.js as well as browser applications can be found in the [README for the module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/arm-storage)

Commit message:

Add known issue to JavaScript ref docs

docs-ref-services/latest/storage.md, after:

---
title: Azure Storage SDK for JavaScript
description: Reference for Azure Storage SDK for JavaScript
author: EmmaZhu
ms.author: emmazhu
ms.data: 05/25/2023
ms.topic: reference
ms.devlang: javascript
ms.service: storage
ms.date: 06/15/2022
---
# Azure Storage Library for JavaScript

[Azure Storage](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/) is a Microsoft managed service providing cloud storage that is highly available, secure, durable, scalable, and redundant. The following libraries in JavaScript make it easy to consume Azure Storage service.

## Client Packages (12.X.X)

|Service| NPM package| Examples|Getting Started Guide|
|---|---|---|--|
|**Storage Blob**|[@azure/storage-blob](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/storage-blob)|[storage-blob-typescript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-blob-typescript/)<br> [storage-blob-JavaScript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-blob-JavaScript/)|Read and write objects and files from [Azure Storage Blob](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/storage-nodejs-how-to-use-blob-storage)|
|**Storage Files**|[@azure/storage-file-share](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/storage-file-share)|[storage-file-share-typescript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-file-share-typescript/)<br> [storage-file-share-javascript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-file-share-javascript/)||
|**Storage Queue**|[@azure/storage-queue](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/storage-queue)|[storage-queue-typescript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-queue-typescript/)<br> [storage-queue-JavaScript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/storage-queue-JavaScript/)|Send and receive messages between cloud-connected applications with <br>[Azure Storage Queue](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/queues/storage-quickstart-queues-nodejs)|
|**Storage Table**|[azure-storage](https://www.npmjs.com/package/azure-storage)<br>(Legacy)| - |Read and write large structured data with [Azure Storage Table](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/storage-nodejs-how-to-use-table-storage)|
|**Data Table**|[@azure/data-table](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/data-tables)|[data-table-typescript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/data-tables-typescript/)<br> [data-table-JavaScript-examples](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/samples/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/data-tables-javascript/)|Read and write large structured data with [Azure Storage Table](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/storage/storage-nodejs-how-to-use-table-storage)|
|||||

Install the npm module with `npm install` followed by the `package-name`. For example,
```bash
npm install @azure/storage-blob
```
and look at the examples from the links provided in the table above.

Read more about the client packages here - [Azure Storage Client Libraries For JavaScript](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/tree/master/sdk/storage/).

Find more getting started guides at [Browse code samples](https://azure.microsoft.com/resources/samples/)

## Management Package

### Install the npm module 

Install the Azure storage management npm module

```bash
npm install @azure/arm-storage
```

### Example

Examples for using this module in Node.js as well as browser applications can be found in the [README for the module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/arm-storage)

## Known issues

This section details known issues for the Azure Storage client libraries for JavaScript.

### InvalidHeaderValue error message when using beta version of SDK

In rare scenarios, applications that have upgraded to a beta version of the SDK can receive an `InvalidHeaderValue` error message. This issue can occur when using any of the Storage libraries. The error message looks similar to the following sample:

```console
HTTP/1.1 400 The value for one of the HTTP headers is not in the correct format.
Content-Length: 328
Content-Type: application/xml
Server: Microsoft-HTTPAPI/2.0
x-ms-request-id: <REMOVED>
Date: Fri, 19 May 2023 17:10:33 GMT
 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><Error><Code>InvalidHeaderValue</Code><Message>The value for one of the HTTP headers is not in the correct format.
RequestId:<REMOVED>
Time:2023-05-19T17:10:34.2972651Z</Message><HeaderName>x-ms-version</HeaderName><HeaderValue>yyyy-mm-dd</HeaderValue></Error> 
```

If you've upgraded to a beta version of the SDK and you experience this error, it's recommended that you downgrade to a supported, generally available version of the SDK to see if the issue resolves. If the issue persists, or if the recommendation is not feasible, [open a support ticket](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Support) to explore further options.
